Chapter 1: Introducing Today's Technologies


Digital Literacy: Current knowledge and understanding of computers, mobile devices, the web, latest software/apps, and related technology, used to stay updated with technological changes.

Computing: a core of technology that can follow instruction very precisely. Core function: processing information (e.g.: search engine and algorithm), storing information (e.g.: IoT), comunicatimg information (e.g.: social media), automating task (e.g.: manufactoring technology), and solving problems (e.g.: improve productivity).

Computer: An programamble electronic device designed to auta=omatically carry out sequence or arithmetic or logical operations. 
  Basic computer: mathematic -> 1st computer: calculator continued by binary number 
  Used to manage data (input) according to specific instructions to produce information (output)  {input -> process -> output}
  Hardware: physical part of computer (enabler). Example: keyboard, mouse, CPU, RAM, storage device, motherboard, input/output device, processor (brain of computer). 
  Software: collection of programs, data, and instruction to tell hardware what to do and how to do it (director). Type of software: operation system, application software (apps), system software (make operating system with hardware, e.g: driver)
  Network: A collection of computers and devices connected together wirelessly via communication devices and transmission media.

Computing device:
  Laptop (notebook computer): A lightweight, mobile computer consisting of a screen in its lid and a keyboard in its base. Laptops can operate on batteries, a power supply, or both.
  Tablet: A thin, lightweight mobile computer that is smaller than a laptop but larger than a phone. Tablets have a touch screen and work with various gestures such as tap, double-tap, press and hold, drag or slide, swipe, stretch, and pinch.
  Desktop: A personal computer that remains in one location where all its components fit on or under a desk or table. Types of desktops include those with a separate display device (separated from the tower) and all-in-one desktops (which do not contain a tower).
  Server: A computer dedicated to providing one or more information resources to other computers or devices on a network. Servers provide services such as storing content and controlling access to hardware, software, and other resources on a network.
  Network: A collection of computers or devices that are connected together.
  Mobile Device: A small computing device designed to be held in hand, such as smartphones, digital cameras, portable digital media players, e-book readers, and wearable devices.
  Smartphone: An internet-capable phone that usually includes a calendar, address book, calculator, notepad, games, and various other apps. Characteristics of a smartphone include wireless communication, touch screen, camera, video recording, messaging, and music playback.
  Digital Camera: A device used to take photos and store the images digitally.
  Portable and Digital Media Players: A mobile device used to store, organize, play, or view digital media such as music, photos, and videos.
  E-book Reader: A mobile device designed for reading electronic books. Most e-readers are touch-screen and internet-capable.
  Wearable Device: A mobile computing consumer device designed to be worn, such as activity trackers and smartwatches.
  Game Device: A game console that connects to a television or another display to play video games for single or multiple players.
  Home Automation Technology: Includes control systems for lighting, thermostats, appliances, security, and remote control.

Data and Information:
  Data: A collection of unprocessed items processed by computer in many ways or structures (raw material).
  Information: Dervied from data by organizing, analysing, and intepreting it in a meaningful way to provide context for decision making.
  Storage: Electronic components that hold data, instructions, and information permanently for future use. Computer store vast amount of data in various format and size such as database, files, and memory.
  Processing: use algorithm and program to process data, performing calculation, sorting, filtering, and transforming it into information.
  Presentation: present information to user in meaningful way trough reports, charts, graphs, or other visual representation.

Comunication and Network:
  Computer comunicating each other with combination of hardware and software, following established protectors to ensure seamless data exchange.
  Communication device: hardware capable of transferring items from computers and device to transmition media vice versa.
  Network: A collection of computers and devices connected together wired or wirelessly via communication devices and transmission media. Type of network: personal area network (two device conected, e.g.: teathring), local area network (LAN), metropolitan area network (MAN), wide area network (WAN)
  Internet: A vast global network of interconnected computers and device that allows information to be shared and accessed by anyone and anywhere in the world.
    Network of network: collection of countless smaller network.
    Data transmition: digital packets are routed to varios networking devices (e.g.: router, switcher, etc.)
    Protocols: network route
    Addresing: IP Address
    Web (World Wide Web): A global library of information available to anyone connected to the internet. Web primarly used HTTP. A webpage consists of a worldwide collection of electronic documents.

The Impact of Internet: 
  Made information more acessible to people around the globe
  Disruption of convientional business
  Freedom of expression on social media

Future Trends Technology: blockchain, applied AI, clean technology, heat-generation technology, VR, IoT, 5G

Input Device: A hardware device used to enter data and instructions into a computer or mobile device, such as keyboards, pointing devices, voice and video input (microphones, headsets, webcams, etc.), and scanners.

Output Device: A hardware component that conveys information from a computer or mobile device to one or more people, such as printers, displays, speakers, earbuds, and headphones.

Memory: Electronic components that store instructions waiting to be executed and the data needed by those instructions temporarily (content is erased when the computer is off).

Storage Media: A place where computers keep data, information, and instructions. Examples include hard disks, solid-state drives (SSDs), USB flash drives, memory cards, and optical disks.

Storage Device: A device used by computers to record (write) and/or retrieve (read) items from storage media. Example: DVD.

Internet of Things (IoT): The concept of devices and objects equipped with sensors that transmit data to and from the internet. IoT is used to collectively refer to this communication capability.

Browser: Software that enables users with an internet connection to access and view webpages on a computer or mobile device.

Online Social Networks (Social Networking Sites): Websites that encourage members to share photos, ideas, videos, stories, and music with other registered users. Examples: LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter.

Malware (Malicious Software): Software that acts without the user's knowledge and deliberately alters the computer's or mobile device's operations. Examples include viruses, worms, Trojan horses, rootkits, spyware, adware, and zombies. Protection from malware includes using virus protection software, downloading software cautiously, and closing spyware windows.

Software (Program): A series of related instructions organized for common purposes that tell the computer what tasks to perform and how to perform them.

Operating System: A set of programs that coordinate all the activities among the computer or mobile device hardware.

Application: A program designed to help users improve productivity and/or assist with personal tasks. Types of applications include productivity, graphics and media, personal interest, communications, security, file, system, and disk management.

Hotspot: A wireless network that provides an internet connection to mobile computers and devices.

Synchronize (Sync): The process of matching files between two devices (e.g., mobile devices and computers).
